#### *Ramble Bahamas*; [ramblebahamas.org](http://ramblebahamas.org)

A Project by “From Dat Time”: The Oral and Public History Institute of
the University of The Bahamas

Review Response from the Creators of *Ramble Bahamas*
-----------------------------------------------------

### 

### Jessica Dawson and Tracey Thompson

<span id="project-link-ramble-bahamas-httprambleba"
class="anchor"></span>

We would like to thank the reviewers for the constructive and insightful
feedback that they have provided in their comprehensive review of
[*Ramble Bahamas*](http://www.ramblebahamas.org/).[^1] We are thrilled
that the reviewers see potential in our ambitious undertaking to provide
a platform combining oral history, active learning, and an exploration
of Bahamian cultural heritage. We found the reviewers’ detailed
narration of their first encounter with the home page to be a perceptive
critique that will help guide us to build a more user-friendly
experience with *Ramble Bahamas*.

The reviewers provided a series of recommendations to enhance the ease
of site navigation and relieve any disorientation that may be felt by a
new user. The most substantial revisions concern the addition of
explanatory prose and the utilization of consistent labels. We
appreciate and have heeded the recommendation to revise the home page
welcome message to include explanatory instructions for site navigation.
In this space, we now provide definitions for our terms *stories* and
*rambles*. We have also added explanatory prose to “The Majority Rule
Heritage Trail” preamble to address how specific audiences, such as
students and tourists, can engage with each of the stories as well as to
provide a recommendation on how to interact with the walking trail. The
suggestion to rebrand “Trails” as “Rambles” to both simplify navigation
and nominalize the act of rambling was an excellent one. For the sake of
clarity and ease, the reviewers keenly suggested the rebranding of
“Browse Items” to “Stories.” We have made these recommended edits to the
navigation bar.

The review offered a number of prudent suggestions related to the
embedded maps. The placement of the map on the home page is a subject we
have debated internally. The reviewers noted the placement as “too
tempting a place to avoid disorientation.” While our site targets a
broad audience, our primary users are Bahamian secondary school
students. The placement of the map has resonated in a positive way with
this younger audience, and for this reason we have chosen to leave it
parallel to the welcome message. We hope that the balance between
detailed welcoming instructions and an interactive map will prove to be
user-friendly for all audiences. For individual stories, the suggestion
to automatically default the map zoom to street level was a sensible one
and has been implemented sitewide. For Trails (now Rambles), the
reviewers offered some ideas to provide a more visually complete trail,
including the utilization of numbered marker icons rather than the
current marker icons. While we considered this suggestion, it is not an
option available with the current geolocation plug-in utilized by the
site. As the reviewers noted, the numbers are available when clicking on
each marker icon. To make this clear, we have included notes in “The
Majority Rule Heritage Trail” text explaining how the numbers can be
activated. The reviewers also noted the overlap of two marker icons
visible at more distant zoom levels. The proximity of these two icons is
unfortunate and unavoidable, since two stories took place at the same
locale. In future Rambles, we will be mindful of marker icon placement
when selecting and mapping our locations to avoid this kind of overlap.

The review notes a missed opportunity on our “About” page and offers
several suggestions to better explain the process behind the work we
undertake as public historians and the importance of “rambling” to the
site creators. Moreover, the reviewers suggested how this space could be
utilized as an opportunity to reflect on how *rambling*, in Bahamian
parlance, means both to speak at length on a topic and to wander in an
unhurried and enjoyable fashion. Interestingly, when we present *Ramble
Bahamas* to outside stakeholders and audiences, we are commonly asked
questions regarding the meaning of the word *ramble* and why the site’s
name was chosen. Therefore, the reviewers had underscored a real and
pressing opportunity to better explain a concept possibly foreign to
non-Bahamians as well as to remind younger Bahamians of a pastime
cherished by their elders. Per recommendation, we have taken Garnette
Cadogan’s powerful “[Walking while
Black](http://lithub.com/walking-while-black/)” essay to heart.[^2] This
work and the reviewers’ recommendation have inspired us to expand our
“About” page to include a reflection on the meaning of “rambling” which
illustrates why this is an appropriate term to employ throughout the
site as it conveys the kind of intellectual experience the site has to
offer.

Also concerning the “About” page, the reviewers encouraged us to break
down the site credits by expanding on our team members’ individual
contributions and roles rather than focusing solely on their academic
hierarchy. We appreciate this opportunity to elaborate on and recognize
individual contributions. When finished, these personal details, along
with the reflection on “rambling,” will provide an introspective look
into the modus operandi that guides the work of our team. Over the
coming months we will further flesh out the personal details and this
reflection.

The recommendation to consistently use tags based on our research themes
(national politics, nursing, education, sportfishing, and World War II
and the postwar era) is welcomed and solves a problem relating to the
overuse of this feature, which we have debated for some time. To
effectively and consistently utilize the tags feature, we have decided
to implement only tags related to our formal research foci. Commenting
on the multimedia captions, the reviewers astutely pointed out the fine
balance between “letting documents speak for themselves and taking on
the role of \[a\] curator.” The recommendation to provide more framing
to improve the user experience will be effective for upcoming stories.
Finally, the reviewers suggested several changes to improve the design
of the individual story pages. These edits (placement of the oral
history audio clips, visual separation of the audio and image sections,
and a more legible audio caption font) are sensible and will be
integrated in future site updates.

[^1]: See “A Review of *Ramble Bahamas*,” this issue of *sx
    archipelagos*. See also www.ramblebahamas.org.

[^2]: Garnette Cadogan, “Walking while Black,” 8 July 2016,
    [lithub.com/walking-while-black](http://lithub.com/walking-while-black/).
